---
layout: post
title: "Gnus part 2"
date: "2013-07-17 19:50:22 +0530"
---

This is the second part of the screencasts discussing Gnus. The general idea was to cover "reading" email and news articles but the screencast ended becoming 30 minutes long. I broke it down into two pieces so that it's more convenient to download.

It discusses the Group buffer where you can see your groups and manage them, the Summary buffer where you can actually see the articles in the group and finally, the Article buffer where you can actually read the email.


Part 1
<iframe src="http://archive.org/embed/EmacsMovies/12.2-episode-gnus-2.1.webm" width="640" height="480" frameborder="0"></iframe>.

Part 2
<iframe src="http://archive.org/embed/EmacsMovies/12.2-episode-gnus-2.2.webm" width="640" height="480" frameborder="0"></iframe>. 

Other formats are available on the [Archive.org page](http://archive.org/details/EmacsMovies).

The keys that are covered in these two episodes are as follows.

Summary
-------
In the Groups buffer:

0. `F` - Checks for new newgroups
1. `t` - toggle topics
2. `g` - Refresh
3. `c` - catchup
4. `n` - Jump to next group with unread articles
5. `.` - Jump to first group with unread articles
6. `U` - Subscribe
7. `S k` - Kill group
8. `#` - Mark group
9. `L` - Show all Groups
10. `l` - Shows groups with unread articles
11.  `G c` - customise group parameters
12.  `F` - Search for new newsgroups
13.  `b` - Cleanup groups
date: "2013-07-17 19:54:31 +0530"

Summary buffer:

0.  `RET` - Read article (and scroll by one line)
1.  `SPACE` - Scroll down by one page
2.  `Backspace` - Scroll up by one page
3.  `s` - Incremental Search   
4.  `h` - Move between summary and article buffers
5.  `B Backspace` - Delete article
6.  `B m` - Move
7.  `B r` - Respool
8.  `B t` - Trace
9.  `#` - Process mark
10.  `MPr` - Mark region
11.  `MPg` - unmark region
12.  `MPR` - Mark articles matching regexp
13.  `MPG` - Unmark articles matching regexp
14.  `!` - Tick article
15.  `M-u` - Remove all marks
16.  `/` - Narrow based on criteria (/ . removes narrowing)
17.  `C-M-t` - Toggle threading
18.  `T-o` - Jump to thread parent
19.  `K-b` - Display MIME buttons
20.  `M-t` - Toggle MIME button display (permanent)
21.  `q` - Exit summary buffer

For further reference, there's the [Gnus manual](http://gnus.org/manual/gnus_toc.html).

Thanks for your patience and continued support.
